---
title: "Dealing with Imposter Syndrome"
draft: false
date: 2021-06-05T22:53:30
---
I feel like imposter syndrome is a big issue that everyone has dealt with, especially in the Tech Industry, especially seeing how many materials are open to everyone on the internet, and all the resources. I've certainly felt that way before, and I still do on a day to day occasion. I feel like I'm not good enough at Programming, and I feel like with all the time I've devoted to it I'm still trash at it. However, one thing I've come to realize is that, I won't ever know everything in programming. It's simply impossible, there are new technologies coming out all the time everyday all over the world, it's evolving at an extremely fast pace, and that's the truth of it. There are a lot of misconceptions about being a programmer, about how you're expected to be a super smart person, and how you need to know everything about what you do, but that's just impossible. There are too many specific functions/libraries for something, and we'll all need to read up on some documentation or look at examples to understand how something works. I think the most important thing that one needs to realize first is that you don't know everything. So when you're trying to do something, and you can't figure out, looking through the documentation for the tool you're using is something you shouldn't be ashamed of. Instead, I would embrace it, because you realize that you're not knowledgeable about something, and instead of crying about not knowing something, you're taking the initiative to learn it. Having a growth mindset is the best way to learn, always being open to learn new things, and when you don't know something, don't get bummed out by it.  No one knows everything, so don't expect yourself to be any different, but you can be different by learning, instead of sticking with a fixed mindset of: "Man, I really don't know how to do this, I suck....." I also think that having a feeling of incompetence is a sign that you're being challenged, and I think it's important to embrace the challenge you're facing and tackle it head on, as a way to improve and grow your skills. I think when it comes to stuff like this, it matters more about how good you want to be, over how good you are. I definitely still struggle with this mindset, but I hope overtime I learn to fully accept imposter syndrome. 
