---
title: "Motivation"
draft: false
date: 2021-06-03T5:45:00
---
Motivation is one of the most overrated things people bring up when talking about reason for doing things. Lots of people are like, "I'm not motivated to do X thing." or "I need motivation to get back to Y thing." and personally I think thats a pretty shitty way of going about things, motivation isn't, and shouldn't be the main reason why someone does or doesn't do something. Motivation is an extremely inconsistent mood, one day you might feel motivated to do something more, and other days you might not feel motivated at all, it just comes and goes. You cannot solely rely on motivation to carry you through something, because it will run out, and you can't force yourself to be motivated. One day you might feel like doing a 2 mile run, you do it for 4 days, and then on the 5th day, all of a sudden you're like "I'm not really motivated to do this." And you don't run, and then the next day you don't do it, and eventually you stop running entirely. I personally think self discipline and setting goals is the best way to go about learning new things/doing shit. Some days I feel like absolute shit, and I don't feel like doing anything, but I still take the time to do the shit that I have to do, because I have the self discipline and the drive to do so. Even if it's a little somedays, maybe 30 minutes compared to a normal day where I spent 2-4 hours on something, it's always something, and something is always better than nothing. So when people ask me, "Hey Bryan, how do you stay motivated to keep doing X thing" or when I talk with someone and they're like "Man, I'm not motivated to do this." I always say this: Make a reasonable goal and work towards that goal every single day, regardless of how you feel, a little every day does more than a lot once in a blue moon, and it always feels good as hell achieving that goal you gave yourself a few months ago, or whatever. But yeah, I guess this is my random ass rant about motivation and shit.
