---
title: "Thoughts on Python"
draft: false
date: 2021-05-30T20:25:40
time: false
---
Python is one of the most popular languages in the world, and for good reason. It's extremely easy to write and understand, there are multiple libraries, and its good for many things like machine learning and data analysis. It's often suggested to newcomers in the Programming field because of how popular and simple it is, it was my first experience with programming in general. I don't regret starting with Python, I still write a bunch of mini scripts using the language, but I would much rather work with another language, because of a few issues that I have with Python. My first problem with Python is the fact that it's dynamically typed, which can lead to a bunch of errors as the program becomes larger due to variables being checked at runtime, although there are good arguments to both sides of the story. I prefer statically typed, regardless of the fact that I have to write a few more lines of code, it's just much more clearer for me. Another problem I have with Python is the fact that it uses whitespace for it's syntax, which makes the code harder for me to read, because you don't have curly braces to find where a function begins and ends, where the actions in a conditional statement are contained, etc. Final big problem I have with it, is that it's slow. Of course, it being slow doesn't matter too much as processors improve and overall hardware capabilities expand, but it's still a problem for older hardware. However, I can still see why the language is successful and why so many people use it, I still use it, although I would personally prefer using other languages when possible.
